Scientific curiosity and a drive to challenge paradigms have shaped Dr. Lieselot Carrette’s interdisciplinary research path across continents and fields. Trained as a chemist at Ghent University in Belgium, she earned her PhD in the Organic and Biomimetic Chemistry Lab of Annemieke Madder, where she developed cross-linking decoys targeting the protein–DNA interface. Upon graduating, she joined the lab of Jeannie Lee at Harvard University and Massachusetts General Hospital, applying her skills in vitro and in vivo to develop a novel epigenetic therapeutic approach aimed at reactivating the inactive X chromosome in X-linked disorders, like Rett syndrome. To bridge molecular mechanisms with complex phenotypes, she pursued a second postdoctoral position in neuroscience in the lab of Olivier George at Scripps Research, where she learned behavioral assays and whole-brain imaging with preclinical models of substance use disorders. This work evolved into a project scientist role and ultimately a faculty position at the University of California, San Diego. Along the way, Dr. Carrette gained a profound appreciation for the intricacies of the brain, complex behavior, individual differences, neuroplasticity, and the resulting importance of precision medicine. To characterize differences in brain state in health and disease, and how this affects complex behavior, she established the 3c (Carrette Cognitive Connectome) Lab. Using whole-brain imaging, the lab aims to provide a new and unbiased mesoscale brain-wide view of neuropsychiatric disorders that could validate new biomarkers for guiding the development and evaluation of novel therapeutic approaches, ultimately, improving translational success. Dr. Carrette is an active member of the Preclinical Addiction Research Consortium (PARC), the Pearson Alcohol Research Center (ARC), and the Altman Clinical and Translational Research Institute (ACTRI).
